# July 17, 2026

## Objective
- To fully refine my experiment for measuring the specifications of my electromagnet.
- To complete the Theoretical portions of my experiment.
- To finish my design decisions.

## Accomplished
- refining my experiment
- completing half of the theory (the thermal equations)


## Questions  
- Is there a way to find the theoretical force of my permanent magnet?

## Next steps 
- To calculate the best theoretical force of the electromagnet + permanent magnet
- To make my design decision up to date
  
## End-Of-Day Reflection

### What did I accomplish?
Today I accomplished finding a formula to model the heat increase of the magnet over time. the model combines Joule heating with 
Newtons's law of Cooling and predicts temperature as a function of current, resistance, thermal resistance, thermal capacitance, and time.

I also refined the experiment and created a screening test so i dont have to do hundreds of inefficient measurments.

### What didn't work
The predicted temperature has a wide range, while we can reasonably estimate how quickly
the electromagnet heats up initially, the equilibrium temperature depends heavily on the value of R_th(thermal resistance). Since R_th 
is currently unknown, the predicted equilibrium temperature varies signifigantly 
depending on assumed value of R_th (with some estimates potentially exceeding 300°C!)
I also found that the equation is highly sensitive to R_th

I was not able to reliably calculate the total lifting force because I do not yet know how much force the permanent
magnet will contribute to the overall system.

### what did I learn?
I learned a bit about resistance to thermal change, and how it's based one how much access the surface has to air among 
other factors like the steel core and what the core is attached to. I also learned a ton about what designing my own experiment
is like.


### What will i do next
I'm going to probably do a similar thing for the magnetic force as I did for the thermal theory
and do 3 separate calculations where i assume the permanent magnet contributes a different percentage of force
i'm also going to finish my design decisions

## Engineering Decisions Made Today
-  Decided to separate Stage 1 into a screening phase and a characterization phase.
-  Added a seperate phase for temperature.
-  Decided to use multiple assumed values of R_th before experimental calibration.
