# July 18, 2026

## Engineering Decisions Made Today
- Decided not to attempt a precise analytical calculation of the permanent magnets force contribution. instead, a sensitivity analysis
- using a range of assumed Bpm values will be used until experimental measurments are availible.

## Objective
- To complete the theoretical portion of the force calculations
- To complete the remaining design decisions.

## Accomplished
- Today I completed the theoretical portion of the experiment. At this point I am primarily waiting for the steel core so that I can
  begin experimental testing.
- finished the design decisions.

## Questions  
- what results is the actual experiment going to show?

## Next steps 
- tighten up the experimental guidlines
- wait until my core comes to build the electromagnet
  
## End-Of-Day Reflection

### What did I accomplish?
Today I finished all the theory of my experiment, now I am just waiting on the core. I also started trying out
and testing all my equipment. I successfully powered several automotive light bulbs using the power supply which confirmed it was 
operating as expected.

### What didn't work
after a considerable trial and error, I was unable to derive an analytical expression for the permanent magnet field
(Bpm) that I was confidend accurately represented my geometry. The availible simplified models rely on assumptions that are not
valid for my magnet dimensions and air gaps. Rather than relying on an unreliable model, I decided to use a sensitivity analysis
with a range of reasonable Ppm values and allow the experiment to determine the actual behavior.

The thermocouple I purchased appears to have a defect where temperatures between approximately 17°C and 19°C are reported as 17°C. fortunately, this
is not expected to affect the experiment because the operating temperature will be signifigantly higher.

While utilizing the equipment, I accidently damaged one of the thermocouple probes and managed to drive the broken wire into my 
fingernail. (it still hurts as i'm typing this.) fortunately the kit included a spare probe, so there will be no impact on the experiment.

### what did I learn?
I learned that accuratley predicting the magnetic field of a permanent magnet is considerably more difficult than predicting the field of an ideal electromagnet.
for more realistic geometries, analytical solutions quickly become impractical, reinforcing the importance of experimental validation.

### What will i do next
wait for the core to arrive as all the things i can do beforehand has already been completed.
